# Example Question

The following analysis is from the 2020 higher coursework assignment. 

Pupils were given this page of information before having to answer a question.

==Task 2A:==

> Teetastic Golf Club has a maximum of 50 members. It would like to develop a program to manage the information of existing and new members.

==Purpose==
 
When a new member visits the golf club, an administrator enters the member’s first name, surname and category of membership into the program. During this process, the new member enters a password that is stored along with their details. The password is then validated to ensure that it meets password strength requirements.

The program reads the existing member data from a text file and the new member’s details are added to the existing member details. Details of all members are then displayed.  

The program can find and display the number of members in each category (junior, adult or senior) and the total number of members. 
 
==Functional requirements==

`Inputs` 

* New member first name, surname, category and password from keyboard
* Existing member first name, surname, category and password from file 
 
`Processes`

* validate password 

* store each member’s details in appropriate data structures 

* find the number of members in each category (junior, adult or senior) 

* find the total number of members 
 
`Outputs`

* display name, surname and category of all members 

* display the number of members in each category  

* display the total number of members 
 
* There is no requirement to write data back to file.

!!! question "Question"

    Identify two boundaries for this program:
